docs/conventions.md, before:

# cam-connect conventions
Please take the time to read this, I will tell you when its updated. 
\
If you follow these conventions we will have a better time writing code and the project can be handed off to the next group in a nice shape. 

## General
- cam-connect should be spelled with a dash and in lowercase wherever possible
  - alternatively "cc" can be used for things like components: `cc-button`
- all internal planning documents, files, comments, commit messages, documentations should be in **english**
- all external proposals, progress reports, documentations should be in **german**

## Workflow / GitHub
- When completing a issue move it to the "Review" area (not done)
  - yanik will check out the issue and either
    - move it to done
    - write a comment on what needs more work
- The Main branch should **always be runnable**
- Commit often, this just safes your work to your local git
  - commit messages 
    - should be precise and short
    - should start with the issue number your working on or with "hotfix:", "refactor:" or something similar when not working on any issue
    - `#0 Updated Workflow section in convetions.md`
  - if many things were changed write a description
- Push at the end of each workday and when leaving school .-.
  - if something is throwing errors add a //TODO and **comment it out**
  - if your issue is constantly throwing errors you can create a feature branch
    - name it `#issueId` & a super short description of your issue
    - switch to that branch, work there until its all done and then create a pull request to dev
- When a sprint is finished
  - The dev branch will be merged with main
  - A description of the major changes will be added to the [changelog](./changelog.md) and pull request
  - if necessary the [feature list](../README.md/#features) will be updated

## Code and file formatting
- use camelCase for folder names
- use camelCase (or PascalCase for classes) for filenames, and css class names
- `{` brackets should be on the same lines as the code they belong to
- use snake_case for database variables
- every major piece of code: ifs, loops, functions, css selectors etc. should be seperated by a empty line from the previous
- condition nesting should be avoided, instead invert the condition and return early
- every major function should have a jsdoc comment overtop of it this should discribe
  - what the function does
  - what it returns
  - if necessary: what the params are used for
- every condition (if, while, switch) that is not immediately clear should have a comment explaining the condition 
in the same line as the bracket
- every codeblock which contents are not immediately clear should have a comment explaining its content overtop of it
- if you can't complete a piece of code right now, add a `//TODO` comment
- every major, bigger block of functions (all that create a new entry, all that display refresh and edit the devices, etc.) 
should be wrapped in a `//region name ..code here.. //endregion` that way they can be folded in webstorm
- when using variables which uses are not immediatly clear add a comment on the same line to explain or on the line above to explain for multiple
- script, style and mockup files belonging together should have the same name
- Id should be written like this `thingId`
- functions that create a new thing should be named `createSomething` 
- functions that search for something should be named `searchForSomething` 
- functions that get a specific thing by a specific param should be named `getAllSomethings` / `getSomethingByID`

this example is very basic, some of the comments are not needed here, but you get the idea
```JS
//region login handeling

/**
 * displays admin pannel if user entered the correct password
 * @returns true if login was successfull false if not
 */
function checkAdminPanelLogin() {
    //displays error to user
    if(document.querySelector('.passwordInput').innerHTML == ""){ //no password entered
        displayError("Please enter a password")
        return false
    }
    
    //displays error to user
    if(!verifyAdminPassword(document.querySelector('.adminPasswordInput').innerHTML)){ //input password matchs with that in db
        displayError("The entered password is not correct")
        return false
    }
    
    return true
}

function checkLogin(){
    //TODO implement login check
    return true
}

//endregion
```

### TS specifics

- most checks should be done with === instead of ==, this also checks for the type: 1 == '1' is true 2 === '2' is not true
- semicolons should be avoided wherever possible (this is a setting in webstorm so it won't add them automatically)
- use .innerText instead of .innerHtml whenever you dont want to add elements to the DOM, this way you avoid injections
- use `string` instead of `String` whenever possible

### SCSS specific
- there should be a base stylesheet whenever multiple pages need the same style
- don't nest multiple container selectors only sub items or pseudo selectors
- classnames and similar should be camelCase
- units
  - do not use pixels
  - use `rem` for text related sizes: font size, text container, height etc.
  - use `vw` for standalone widths, that of: popups, big areas, etc.
  - use `%` for the width of child items
  - use `ch` for text width: this represents how many characters can fit
- try to use `box-sizing: border-box` to make designs more robust
- use grids and their gap property
- use `aspect-ratio: 1` for squares
- use width/height `fit-content` for auto scaling

For those that don't know scss this will seem weird, it's actually pretty easy
```SCSS
$accent: #4095BF; //defines a variable

.equipmentItem{
  &:hover{ //compiles to .equipmentItem:hover{}
    color: $accent;
  }
  
  h2{ //compiles to .equipmentItem h2
    font-family: quicksand, sans-serif;
  }
}

.equipmentItem .tags{
  &::before{
    content: 'hey';
    background-color: white;
  }
  
  &.marked{ //compiles to .equipmentItem .tags.marked
    color: black;
  }
}
```

## JAVA specific
- Api routes should be implemented in the same order as they are in the api.md documentation
- If the route does not jet exist in the docu file it should be added (further instructions in the file) 

## Style
- use the font quicksand on every UI
- use the accent color `#4095BF` `hsl(200, 50, 50)`
- for recoloring svgs you can use this generator https://codepen.io/sosuke/pen/Pjoqqp

Commit message:

#21 devicetype updates should work now #41 refactoring

docs/conventions.md, after:

# cam-connect conventions
Please take the time to read this, I will tell you when its updated. 
\
If you follow these conventions we will have a better time writing code and the project can be handed off to the next group in a nice shape. 

## General
- cam-connect should be spelled with a dash and in lowercase wherever possible
  - alternatively "cc" can be used for things like components: `cc-button`
- all internal planning documents, files, comments, commit messages, documentations should be in **english**
- all external proposals, progress reports, documentations should be in **german**

## Workflow / GitHub
- When completing a issue move it to the "Review" area (not done)
  - yanik will check out the issue and either
    - move it to done
    - write a comment on what needs more work
- The Main branch should **always be runnable**
- Commit often, this just safes your work to your local git
  - commit messages 
    - should be precise and short
    - should start with the issue number your working on or with "hotfix:", "refactor:" or something similar when not working on any issue
    - `#0 Updated Workflow section in convetions.md`
  - if many things were changed write a description
- Push at the end of each workday and when leaving school .-.
  - if something is throwing errors add a //TODO and **comment it out**
  - if your issue is constantly throwing errors you can create a feature branch
    - name it `#issueId` & a super short description of your issue
    - switch to that branch, work there until its all done and then create a pull request to dev
- When a sprint is finished
  - The dev branch will be merged with main
  - A description of the major changes will be added to the [changelog](./changelog.md) and pull request
  - if necessary the [feature list](../README.md/#features) will be updated

## Code and file formatting
- use camelCase for folder names
- use camelCase (or PascalCase for classes) for filenames, and css class names
- `{` brackets should be on the same lines as the code they belong to
- use snake_case for database variables
  - whenever a variable is used as an foreign key it should be named simply `<object>` when it contains a entity and `<object>_id` when it contains the id. This should be the case everywhere.
  - these _ names should be kept the same all throughout the project. Eg. when passing them to the frontend.
- every major piece of code: ifs, loops, functions, css selectors etc. should be seperated by a empty line from the previous
- condition nesting should be avoided, instead invert the condition and return early
- every major function should have a jsdoc comment overtop of it this should discribe
  - what the function does
  - what it returns
  - if necessary: what the params are used for
- every condition (if, while, switch) that is not immediately clear should have a comment explaining the condition 
in the same line as the bracket
- every codeblock which contents are not immediately clear should have a comment explaining its content overtop of it
- if you can't complete a piece of code right now, add a `//TODO` comment
- every major, bigger block of functions (all that create a new entry, all that display refresh and edit the devices, etc.) 
should be wrapped in a `//region name ..code here.. //endregion` that way they can be folded in webstorm
- when using variables which uses are not immediatly clear add a comment on the same line to explain or on the line above to explain for multiple
- script, style and mockup files belonging together should have the same name
- Id should be written like this `thingId`
- functions that create a new thing should be named `createSomething` 
- functions that search for something should be named `searchForSomething` 
- functions that get a specific thing by a specific param should be named `getAllSomethings` / `getSomethingByID`

this example is very basic, some of the comments are not needed here, but you get the idea
```JS
//region login handeling

/**
 * displays admin pannel if user entered the correct password
 * @returns true if login was successfull false if not
 */
function checkAdminPanelLogin() {
    //displays error to user
    if(document.querySelector('.passwordInput').innerHTML == ""){ //no password entered
        displayError("Please enter a password")
        return false
    }
    
    //displays error to user
    if(!verifyAdminPassword(document.querySelector('.adminPasswordInput').innerHTML)){ //input password matchs with that in db
        displayError("The entered password is not correct")
        return false
    }
    
    return true
}

function checkLogin(){
    //TODO implement login check
    return true
}

//endregion
```

### TS specifics

- most checks should be done with === instead of ==, this also checks for the type: 1 == '1' is true 2 === '2' is not true
- semicolons should be avoided wherever possible (this is a setting in webstorm so it won't add them automatically)
- use .innerText instead of .innerHtml whenever you dont want to add elements to the DOM, this way you avoid injections
- use `string` instead of `String` whenever possible

### SCSS specific
- there should be a base stylesheet whenever multiple pages need the same style
- don't nest multiple container selectors only sub items or pseudo selectors
- classnames and similar should be camelCase
- units
  - do not use pixels
  - use `rem` for text related sizes: font size, text container, height etc.
  - use `vw` for standalone widths, that of: popups, big areas, etc.
  - use `%` for the width of child items
  - use `ch` for text width: this represents how many characters can fit
- try to use `box-sizing: border-box` to make designs more robust
- use grids and their gap property
- use `aspect-ratio: 1` for squares
- use width/height `fit-content` for auto scaling

For those that don't know scss this will seem weird, it's actually pretty easy
```SCSS
$accent: #4095BF; //defines a variable

.equipmentItem{
  &:hover{ //compiles to .equipmentItem:hover{}
    color: $accent;
  }
  
  h2{ //compiles to .equipmentItem h2
    font-family: quicksand, sans-serif;
  }
}

.equipmentItem .tags{
  &::before{
    content: 'hey';
    background-color: white;
  }
  
  &.marked{ //compiles to .equipmentItem .tags.marked
    color: black;
  }
}
```

## JAVA specific
- Api routes should be implemented in the same order as they are in the api.md documentation
- If the route does not jet exist in the docu file it should be added (further instructions in the file) 

## Style
- use the font quicksand on every UI
- use the accent color `#4095BF` `hsl(200, 50, 50)`
- for recoloring svgs you can use this generator https://codepen.io/sosuke/pen/Pjoqqp
